# forth-libs

Collection of words to help with writing high level applications with Forth language. The source code here is tested using gforth. Suggestions are welcome.

Current revision: ca125ee8bb01660eea11afe0b56da2740f540175.

This file is generated by docgen.fs.

# `list.fs`
## `list:make`
`( -- list )` allot new list object

## `list:node:make`
`( data -- node )` allot new node and set data to u

## `list:append`
`( list data -- list )` allot new node with data and append to list return list

## `list:for-each`
`( xt list -- )` execute xt on every element of list

## `list:map`
`( list1 xt -- list2 )` execute xt on every element of list1 and create a new list2 and return

## `list:length`
`( list -- n )` return list length

## `list:nth`
`( list n -- data )` return the nth data from list

## `list:reduce`
`( list acc xt -- acc ) apply func xt on every element accumulating result in acc. xt is called with ( acc element -- acc )`

## `list:some`
`( list xt -- t ) execute xt on every node and return true if at least one returns true. xt is called with ( element -- t )`

# `string.fs`
## `string:raw`
`( string -- caddr u )` return counted string from string

## `string:caddr`
`( string -- caddr )` return caddr from string

## `string:make`
`( caddr u -- string )` make a string from the string at counted string

## `string:to-number`
`( string -- u )` convert string into number

## `string:print`
`( string -- )` print string

## `string:tokenize`
`( d string -- tokens )` tokenize string delimited by d into list of tokens

## `string:nth`
`( string n -- c )` return nth character in string

## `string:reduce`
`( string acc xt -- acc ) execute xt on every node accumulating result in acc. xt is called with ( acc char -- acc )`

## `string:some`
`( string xt -- t )` execute xt on every node and return true if at least one returns true

## `string:every`
`( string xt -- t )` execute xt on every node and return true if all returns true

## `string:append`
`( string1 string2 -- string3 )` append string2 to string1 and return string3

## `string:compare`
`( string1 string2 -- t )` compare string1 with string2 and return boolean

## `string:from-char`
`( c -- string )` make string for char

## `string:substring`
`( string1 a b -- string2 ) exctract string2 from string1 with offsets [a,b) (FIXME)`

## `string:index-of`
`( string1 string2 -- b )` return the index of string2 within string1 otherwise -1

## `string:replace`
`( string1 string2 string3 -- string4 )` replace string2 in string1 with string3 and return string4

## `string:ends-with`
`( string1 string2 -- t )` returns true if string1 ends with string2

